# Koho Financial Inc: Opening Up the Canadian Consumer Banking Industry
Koho Financial Inc has been steadily working away since December 2014, under the leadership of Daniel Eberhard, to open up new possibilities for Canadian consumer banking. The consumer banking industry in Canada is an exceptionally difficult market to enter due to the intense regulations and vetting processes instituted by the federal government. This has effectively resulted in a monopoly of six major banks, all of whom offer similar services for similar prices. 

Well they did until Koho Financial Inc. showed up. Koho's goal is to slash the immense fees, on avg. $159/year, Canadians are charged to hold their money just in chequing accounts. Koho's basic account allows customers to keep their money in their chequing accounts on the Koho mobile app and transact their funds for free anytime, within reason. To make their service even more appealing, Koho's basic account provides 0.5% cash back on every transaction made with on the Koho Visa Debit card. Additionally, Koho provides an intelligent in-app budgeting interface which prevents users from spending more than the users' goals and puts extra money away into savings on every purchase. 

Koho Financial is the first distinctly Canadian start-up challengor banking app to attempt to democratize and decentralize the domestic consumer banking industry. Like all other challengor banking apps, Koho has started out as a subsidiary bank of the smaller, specialized finacial institution, People's Trust, whose accounts are headquartered in Vancouver, BC. Like their main competitor, Revolut, which originally began as a subsidiary of the Bank of Lithuania, Koho utilizes People's Trust in order to ensure customer's accounts are in a safe and stable organization. While the accounts are held in Vancouver, customer transactions are performed by the Koho Prepaid Visa Debit Card and Koho's revenue is derived from Visa's transactional commission. 

At present, Koho offers a range of services in both their basic and premium accounts. While both accounts offer cash back services, the premium account comes with various other benefits including higher cash back percentages and no foreign exchange fees. As well, for a Canuck start-up, Koho is not doing too badly. There are approximately more than 170 000 users of Koho's services, which accounts for 0.02% of the domestic banking marketcap. The target customers are young, tech-savy millenials and Gen X'ers who want an overall better experience with their personal banking. Compared to Revolut, which will be its main competitor once it fully opens in Canada, Koho is out-performing Revolut in total marketcap despite the figures being skewed towards Revolut in overall scalability. Revolut has 12 million users across all domains in which they operate accounting for 0.01% of total market share. Koho, does not seem to have its eyes on the global market but rather chooses to grow locally. 

Other than the moral desire to buy local, will Koho have the edge over Revolut once they are clear to do business in the Canadian market? For starters, no other challengor bank offers cash-back opportunities which, for Canadians, is a big draw. However, in terms of overall services available, Revolut definitely takes the cake. Revolut's services focus primarily on travel perks but also provides in-app cryptocurrency trade and personal stock investment on the NASDAQ, FOOTSIE AND NYSE. Revolut also provides free international wire transfers and free e-transfers between accounts for all account holders. If Koho would like to compete with Revolut once Revolut's market restriction is unleashed, they will have to up their game. Some areas in which Koho can improve are the following. Koho should allow all customers to have access to free FX, within limits, and potentially allow for special travel perks for Canada-US travel; ex. cashback on flight purchases with specific airlines made on the Koho Prepaid Visa Debit Card. Additionally, Koho should provide users with free wire transfers at least between Canada and the USA. This would require partnering either with TransferWise initially or setting up subsidiary banks in all 50 States, which would take longer for licensing approval and again, more capital. Furthermore, Koho should capitalize on shifting their marketing towards university students, who often need budgeting advice and would benefit best from building appropriate spending habits. Special offers for students at major Canadian Universities, ex. first six months free for a premium account, would enable them to further capitalize on and develop their target market client base ahead of Revolut's launch. This could be achieved by partnering with UniDays, an app that promotes student deals and has the infrastructure for verifying their studentship in app. This would require additional blockchain technological development in Koho's app to verify the overall transaction. 

Is this all impossible? No. Will it all happen before Revolut's immense financial resources for marketing are unleashed into the Canadian market? Only time will tell.  
